Hipo describer

In the case of Facebook … there’s a very widespread dissatisfaction with Facebook. It’s been criticized almost constantly by everybody. And yet, somehow, people are still on it. 

is it’s the network effect,
because everybody is already on it, it would require a supernatural degree of coordination for everybody to get off it at the same time. So to get off it means that you’re sort of isolating yourself.

The key idea here is that it’s just hard to get off it. Mathematically, people are kind of stuck. Then, added to that, in this case, is the addiction factor. People are addicted to it. So if you have both network effect and addiction, then it becomes really hard to leave.

there have been times before, recently and even in America, when society had to confront mass addiction that had a commercial component.

I’m thinking of Mothers Against Drunk Drivers. And I’m thinking of the public smoking of cigarettes. In both of those cases, there were industries that relied on mass addiction, but somehow or other, a rational conversation gradually created a change. In neither case was the substance totally outlawed, but its role in society was vastly changed.

I’ve seen so many articles or comments about Facebook that are, like, “Oh, it’s terrible; the business model is fundamentally horrible.” But then, any alternative is just viewed as being impossible — that’s it. As soon as we can criticize it we’re done, and now we’ll just live with it and watch civilization fall apart. 

With new regulation, companies who collect personal information have to make your information portable

That means you can get a machine readable copy of your personal information

Ive tried this, I downloaded my FB, my insta, my snap, my google apps. These files are suprisingly, or maybe unsurprisingly, massize in size. And these data dumps have so many gaps in them still. To get an actual copy of ALL your personal information from these giants would be far too much for anyone to work with.

And after you download a portable copy of your data what is there to do with it? You can look at it and thats fun for a little, but its not really the purpose of data portability.

the idea is that you should be able to take your data with you wherever you go. But theres no tools, products that do this really well that are being used widely. I see this as a problem which can be solved.

Separate the apps from the data. In GDPR terms there are data processors and there are data controllers. Hipo is THE data controller. This model of download your fb data and bring it to X, and bring it to Y, and bring it to Z doesnt seem right. Bring it to Hipo, and hipo is there wherever you go.

There was a very recent hack, where every app that used facebook login was vulnerable. and people are rapidly offering options other than faebook login. this is an opportunity. companies used facebook login for 2 main reasons: they knew their users were on facebook, and they knew they could get data about their users on facebook.

So facebook had scale, and it had data. This is my vision of hipo. you and store, and secure your personal information in one place. share it with who, for how long, and for what reasons, explicit opt in every time. And bring your data with you when you leave. If we are a destination which combines facebook data, with google data, with amazon data, with netflix data .... that is very powerful.

The business models will change I beleive. As the conversation changes, users may be willing to spend money for search or social networks if it means protecting their personal information. Or it may mean that users will be willing to exhange their personal information as a form of alternate currency. 

It is obvious that personal information holds intrinsic value, but yet many people think that it is something like car exhaust. Which is created unintentionally and left behind as you speed ahead. Well advances in AI and ML are changing this rapidly. Small data is the new big data. Your personal information is valuable. That is our mission.